How does this rule affect the dynamic calculation of the application scope for the master template?
How can I ensure that all functions used in my Blended application are defined in the user environment?
Can I declare the same blended object twice in a Blended program?
What are the three pairs of delimiters used to distinguish tags from static text in Blended?
Can the else section of a for...else block be used with other control structures like if...else?
What happens if the included template's scope expectation is not satisfied by the values passed into the master template?
Can the int filter handle negative numbers?
What if I want to negate a number in Blended?
Can a user-defined function have the same name as a built-in function in Blended?
What happens if a macro tries to modify a variable that is passed as an argument but is not mutable?
What is the nature of variable in child scope which is defined in parent scope?
How does the `notIn` operator work with strings?
What happens if there are no items in the list being iterated over in a for...else block?
How does the `length` function handle empty collections?
Can I use the word 'set' as a variable?
Is it allowed for macros to call each other in a circular manner?
What happens if a variable is defined in both a parent and a child scope?
Can a block access variables declared in a parent block?
Can I use a for loop to iterate over a list and modify the list at the same time?
Can variables defined in a macro be accessed outside of the macro?
What happens if the input to the length function is not an array or a string?
Can the `notIn` operator be used with arrays?
What if I need to keep track of a running total within a loop?
What happens if the input string is empty?
Can the `rgbcolor` function handle RGB values outside the range of 0 to 255?
Can a function be defined in both the template and the user environment?
How can I use `loop.first` and `loop.last` in a conditional statement within a for loop?
How does the truncate function work in Blended?
Can the length function be used with strings?
Can the 'in' operator be used with nested arrays in Blended?
What is the syntax for using the `int filter` in a Blended template?
Can names assigned in the template be accessed within blocks?
Can a module be imported multiple times in the same scope?
What is the purpose of the floor function in Blended?
Are comments case-sensitive in Blended?
What happens if a variable is defined in the 'Loop' scope and then used outside of it?
What is the purpose of the `rgbcolor` function in Blended?
How does the 'Iterator' scope differ from other scopes in Blended?
What if a variable is defined in a parent scope and then a child scope tries to modify it?
What happens if the for loop is executed but the else section is not executed?
What happens if I apply the escape filter to a string that is already escaped?
Can a variable be accessed if it is defined in the current scope?
What if I include a template that has a function that modifies a variable in the master template?
How does the scope of a macro differ from the scope of a block tag?
Can you negate a negative number in Blended?
How does the `rgbcolor` function handle an array of size 3 as an argument?
Can the 'Loop' scope be used in other parts of the template?
Can a function be defined within another function in Blended?
How to use flloor function in Blended?
What if the for loop is not executed due to a condition outside the loop?
What happens if the string passed to the `int filter` is not a valid number?
What is the purpose of the template filter in Blended?
How do I use the `lower` function in a Blended template?
What is the difference between `notIn` and `not` in Blended?
What happens if I try to define a function with the same name as a user-defined function?
Can strings, numbers, booleans, lists, and dictionaries be added to the scope as literal values passed in as input to a tag?
Can variables defined in the 'Application' scope be accessed in nested templates?
Can names defined inside parent or ancestor scopes be overwritten or modified within child or descendant scopes?
What are some of the reserved words in blended?
How does the ceil function work with decimal numbers?
What is the purpose of the `ifblock` in Blended?
What is the result of negating zero in Blended?
Can I use a variable in a Render statement?
What if I try to concatenate a boolean with a number in Blended?
How can I ensure that the 'Iterator' scope is used correctly in my Blended code?
Can I use `{% raw %}` and `{% endraw %}` in a Blended template to include Jinja/Twig syntax without causing issues?
What if a macro in Blended shares the name of a module defined in the same scope?
Can the `items` filter be used in combination with other filters or modifiers?
What happens if a macro is defined within another macro?
What is the correct way to concatenate two strings in Blended?
What happens if the datetime filter encounters an element that cannot be converted into a timestamp?
What is the purpose of the truncate function in Blended?
What happens to variables set inside a for loop in Twig?
How are segments and code segments used in Blended?
Can the else section of a for...else block be empty?
Can the `items` filter be used with other types of objects?
Can a variable defined in a parent scope be accessed in a child scope?
What if a variable is defined in a parent scope and then a grandchild scope tries to redefine it?
What if a block statement is invoked by a parent tag inside a child block, and the parent block does not contain a block statement with the same name?
Can a macro in Blended import macros from other files?
How does Blended-Lint handle blocks defined in the root template?
What happens if the input to the ceil function is an integer?
Can macros be used to create loops or conditional statements in Blended?
What is the purpose of the `int filter` in Blended?
What is the scope of the 'iterator' in a Blended for...else statement?
Can the length function be used in a conditional statement?
Can macros access variables defined outside their scope?
Can macros access built-in functions, user functions, and other macros defined inside the same scope?
What happens if the only keyword is present in the include tag?
Can a variable be declared inside scope A and used in scope B?
What happens if there is only one argument provided to truncate function?
How does the scope of Blended templates differ from Jinja/Twig?
What is the syntax for using the `concat` function in Blended?
What are custom functions in Blended?
What is the difference between a Safe string and a regular string in Blended?
What is the relationship between the 'else' segment and the 'iterator' scope in terms of variable access?
Can variables be added to the scope as the return values of functions, which may then be passed in as input to a tag?
What happens if the argument is a number in the string filter?
Is the `title` function case-sensitive?
Can I include a template using the `include` tag in Blended?
