Can you negate a negative number in Blended?
What happens if a parent tag inside a child block does not contain a block statement with the same name?
What are the benefits of using built-in functions in Blended?
What happens if I include a template that contains variables that are not defined in the master template?
How can I ensure that the 'Iterator' scope is used correctly in my Blended code?
What happens if a nested block is defined inside a parent block?
I read somewhere that, there are 4 types of delimiters present in blended. Is it true?
What are the potential consequences of not following the rule regarding built-in function names in Blended?
Is the ceil function case-sensitive?
Can I use the keyword 'block' as a variable name in Blended?
Is there any other way to add macros to scope other than using macro tag and from...import statement?
What if a template has both a schema-definition and a user-function-definition file?
What happens if I try to access a property that doesn't exist in an object?
Can I define a anything named 'ceil' in my blended program?
Can a template be created from a array in Blended?
Can I use the word 'print' as a variable?
What if a macro in Blended shares the name of a module defined in the same scope?
How does the scope of Blended templates differ from Jinja/Twig?
Can a macro be defined inside a macro tag within another macro tag?
How do I use the `rgbcolor` function with an array of integers?
What happens if a macro calls itself in a way that creates a loop?
What happens if a name is assigned in the template and then used within a block?
If a child template defines a block that is not found in the root or any ancestor, how many times will that block be evaluated?
What happens if the only keyword is NOT used in the include tag?
Can you negate a string in Blended?
Can you tell me how many different scopes are present in Blended?
How to introduce timestamps in blended?
Can static text be interspersed with tags in Blended?
What happens if the included template is not found or cannot be loaded?
List 5 built-in functions in Blended
Can I use a variable in a Render statement?
Can Print statements be used to output multiple values at once?
What if I want to concatenate a string with a variable in Blended?
Can names assigned in the template be accessed within blocks?
What is the purpose of the Concatenate (~) operator in Blended?
How does the 'in' operator behave with empty strings or arrays?
What is the purpose of the join function in Blended?
What happens if a variable is defined in multiple blocks?
What is the syntax for using the `int filter` in a Blended template?
Is upper function of Jinja function in Blended?
Are names assigned in the template accessible outside the template?
Can the `notIn` operator be used with arrays?
What if a variable is defined in a parent scope and then a child scope tries to modify it?
Can a function be defined in both the template and the user environment?
Can I import built-in functions from other modules in Blended?
What happens if I try to use the `+` operator with numbers in Blended?
What if tag uses delimiters '{%' and '%}' doesn't start its internal syntax which doesn't tell about purpose?
What happens if the string passed to the `int filter` is not a valid number?
If a macro imports another macro, can the imported macro access variables from the importing macro's parent scope?
Does two blocks share scope?
What happens if a variable is declared within a block in Blended?
Can I import a module that contains a variable with the same name as a macro in the current scope?
Concatenate arr1 and arr2 using concat function.
Can I use 'truncate' as filter in Blended?
Is floor a built-in filter in Blended?
What if a macro imports a macro that is defined in the same scope but not imported by any macro in the same scope?
Can the `items` filter be used in combination with other filters or modifiers?
What are the ways to introduce safe strings in blended?
What happens if a template does not have a schema-definition or user-function-definition file?
What happens if a variable is defined in both a parent and a child scope?
Can a macro be defined directly within the template scope?
Can a macro access variables defined outside its macro tags?
How to find the length of an array ?
How are timestamps added to the scope?
I read somewhere that multiple tags are not allowed in statements. Is it true?
What is the purpose of the `macro` tag in Blended?
Can I use `{% raw %}` and `{% endraw %}` in a Blended template to include HTML or other non-Jinja/Twig content?
What happens if a function is defined in a template but not in the user environment?
Is floor a built-in macro in Blended?
What are the three pairs of delimiters used to distinguish tags from static text in Blended?
Does user-function scope contains user functions?
Is the syntax of print statement of blended similar to python or any other language?
What are the delimiters used for comment tags in Blended?
What is the purpose of macros in Blended templates?
What is the purpose of the Else scope in Blended templates?
Is print statement built in statement in blended?
Can a macro in Blended import macros from multiple files?
How do custom functions differ from built-in functions in Blended?
What are the individual tags that can be used in Blended?
I have defined a macro inside if...else statement. Is it possible?
What is the significance of the prescribed behavior of a statement in Blended?
Can custom functions be used in any part of the Blended code?
How does the double evaluation affect the scope of variables within a block?
What if a block statement is invoked by a parent tag inside a child block, and the parent block contains multiple block statements with the same name?
Can I create a new item in the context?
What are the benefits of using the template filter in Blended?
Can I import a template using the `import` tag in Blended?
What is the purpose of the double evaluation of a block scope in Blended?
Which symbol is known as negate operator in blended?
Can the else section of a for...else block be used with other control structures like if...else?
Does built-in scope contains user functions?
Can the `rgbcolor` function be used to generate a color from a hexadecimal string?
I heard that there are 10 types of scopes present in blended. Is it true?
Is string filter a built-in function in Blended?
Can a macro access outside variables?
What is the difference between a segment and a code segment in Blended?
What is the difference between negating a positive number and a negative number in Blended?
Can I use a variable set at the bottom of a for loop in the loop segment?
Can I declare the same blended object twice in a Blended program?
What happens if I apply the escape filter to a string that is already escaped?
Can I use the word 'true' as a variable?
How can I ensure that all functions used in my Blended application are defined in the user environment?
How many ways are there to introduce safe strings in blended?
Is title a built-in macro in Blended?
Can the `title` function handle strings with multiple spaces between words?
Can I create a macro named 'print' if print is already a built-in function in Blended?
What are the implications of the 'Application' scope being immutable and global?
A variable named 'var' is present inside macro, is it in macro scope?
What happens if a named statement tag is immediately followed by a newline character in a Blended template?
How does the rule handle nested named statement tags in a Blended template?
Can a variable be declared in the template and then referenced in the JSON schema?
Can the `concat` function be used to concatenate more than two lists or arrays in Blended?
What if I include a template that has a function that modifies a variable in the master template?
What are the strict scoping rules in Blended?
Is `C++ or C or Javascript code` a code segment of blended?
Can the title function handle special characters?
What if the for loop is not executed due to a condition outside the loop?
What happens if a macro is defined in a child scope and then accessed in a parent scope?
How does the scope affect access to data in Blended templates?
Can a macro be defined inside an if...else statement?
Can I use the `rgbcolor` function in a template or script?
I read somewhere that there are 10 data types present in blended templates. Correct me if I am wrong.
Is mean a built-in macro in Blended?
Is ceil a built-in filter in Blended?
What does the 'in' operator do in Blended?
What is the difference between a Safe string and a regular string in Blended?
What happens if a macro tries to access a variable that is not defined in its scope or passed as an argument?
Can I define a function in my Blended code that has the same name as a built-in function?
I do not declare a variable in a parent scope and trying to access it in child scope. Is it possible?
Can a macro be defined inside a for...else statement?
Can the string filter be used with arrays or lists?
What happens if the for loop is executed but the else section is not executed?
A if-else block is present outside macro, is it in macro scope?
There are 8 scopes present in Blended. Is it correct?
Is truncate a built-in macro in Blended?
What if I want to use a variable from a sibling context in Blended?
Can the `upper` function be used on numbers or other data types?
What is meant by a valid Blended template?
Can a block modify a variable declared in a another block?
I declared a variable inside a for loop and then tried to use it outside of it. I got an error, ,why?
How does Blended-Lint ensure that a valid Blended template will execute in the same way regardless of the runtime?
What if I want to access a property that is nested within another property?
I defined a variable with name similar to macro name. Is it possible?
How do built-in functions differ from user-defined functions in Blended?
Which data names can be overridden?
Can a macro import a macro that is defined in a different scope but not imported by any macro in the same scope?
If a macro imports another macro, can the imported macro access the outside variables of the importing macro?
Can variables be added to the scope as the return values of functions, which may then be passed in as input to a tag?
Can I overwrite a variable declared in the parent scope within a child scope?
How do you truncate a number in Blended?
